{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red108\green108\blue108;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 Genevieve Graves <graves@astro.berkeley.edu>\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 April 1, 2011 08:51:29  Pacific Time\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 "Moustakas, Leonidas A (3266)" <leonidas@jpl.nasa.gov>, "Postman, Marc (1900-Affiliate)" <postman@stsci.edu>\

\b \cf2 Subject: \cf3 stellar population gradients\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs30 \cf3 Hi Leonidas.\
\
You asked for a mini brain-dump of information about stellar population gradients, along with some references. \'a0This is an area where I have long been intending to do a bunch more reading (no time like the present, eh?), but here's a summary of what I know at the moment, along with the papers that stick out in my mind.\
\
I hope it's useful! \'a0If you want to talk briefly about this stuff later today, I'm around most of the day and would be happy to chat.\
\
Cheers,\
Genevieve\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 Gradients in Spiral Galaxies\ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\i \cf3 Metallicity gradients:
\i0  I think it is pretty well established that spiral galaxies have substantial metallicity gradients, with metal-rich centers and metal-poor outer parts.\'a0 People have done this looking at stellar metallicity gradients with colors in other galaxies (e.g., Bell & de Jong 2000), with stellar spectra in our own galaxy (e.g., Ivezic et al. 2008), and by mapping the metallicity gradients of HII regions in star-forming galaxies (e.g., Zaritsky, Kennicutt, & Huchra 1994). \'a0\
\'a0\'a0\

\i Age gradients:
\i0 \'a0 There are multiple studies that suggest that spirals also have significant age gradients, with older stars in the center and younger stars in the outer parts.\'a0 e.g., Bell & de Jong (2000) fit SEDs to radially resolved optical and near-IR photometry and find the centers of galaxies to be old and metal-rich, while the outer parts are younger and more metal-poor.\'a0 Kauffmann et al. (2006) find that many massive bulge-dominated galaxies have blue outer regions, which appear to show residual star formation even after star formation has ceased in the inner part of the galaxy.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 Gradients in Early Type Galaxies\ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\i \cf3 Metallicity gradients:
\i0  It is well-established that early type galaxies show strong metallicity gradients, with metal-rich centers and metal-poor outer parts.\'a0 The SAURON team (Scott, Cappellari et al. 2009) recently published this in an interesting and somewhat novel way---plotting [Z/H] as a function of the local escape velocity in the galaxy (essentially a radial gradient, with high V_esc in the center).\'a0 There are many other studies that show similar things, both with spectral absorption line strengths and colors.\
\

\i Age gradients:
\i0  These are more debated.\'a0 The Scott et al. (2009) paper mentioned above find age gradients that are flat in some galaxies, while other show youngish central ages and older ages farther out.\'a0 Another relevant paper is Sanchez-Blazquez\'a0 et al. (2007), who find weak or no age gradient in 10/11 early types, while one have a very young center.\'a0 Interestingly, the weak positive age gradients, combined with the negative metallicity gradients, means that the age-metallicity degeneracy acts to keep galaxy color (and line-strength) gradients weaker than they otherwise might be.\
\

\i Abundance ratio gradients:\'a0
\i0  There do not seem to be strong [alpha/Fe] gradients in early types.\'a0 In the papers quoted above, Scott et al. (2009) find no [alpha/Fe] gradients and Sanchez-Blazquez et al. (2007) find no gradients, weak positive gradients, or weak negative gradients in their galaxies. \'a0\
\

\i Gradients beyond the half-light radius: 
\i0 In general, these studies do not go beyond the half-light radius of the galaxy.\'a0 Some work that I am doing right now tracing stellar population gradients out to 2-3 R_eff essentially agrees with these studies: Age gradients vary from galaxy-to-galaxy, are usually weak, but with some galaxies showing young cores.\'a0 All galaxies show strong negative gradients in total metallicity.\'a0 [alpha/Fe] varies little with radius.\'a0 Interestingly, carbon-enhancement ([C/Fe]) seems to scale strongly with radius---galaxies have much higher [C/Fe] in their centers that in their outskirts. \'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 At high redshift\ulnone \
\
It is of course much harder to study population gradients at high redshift.\'a0 Rigby et al. (2011) and Wuyts et al. (2010) have SEDs and spectroscopy for a lensed galaxy at z=1.7, but don't try to extract spatially-resolved information.\'a0 There was a Rigby HST proposal in Cycle 18 to do resolved SED fitting for a lensed arc (might well be the same one) which I think got time, but I don't see the paper out yet.\
\
\ul Theory\ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\i \cf3 Spiral galaxies: 
\i0 I don't know much about formation models for spiral galaxies.\'a0 Bell & de Jong (2000) propose a scenario in which star formation happens early and rapidly in high-density regions of the galaxy (i.e., the center) and proceeds more slowly out at large radius where the gas densities are low, hence leaving low-lever star formation in the outer parts of the galaxy at late times.\'a0 There's a huge literature on the Milky Way star formation history and detailed chemical evolution models with which I am not very familiar.\'a0 Some names that spring to mind are Brad Gibson, Rok Roskar, Daisuke Kawata, Chiaki Kobayashi.\'a0 I'm sure I'm missing some big ones.\
\

\i Early-type galaxies:
\i0  There are limited numbers of chemical evolution models for early type galaxies (Gibson et al. 2007, Pipino et al. 2010), and they tend to be trying to reproduce existing observations, not making strong new predictions.\'a0 An interesting recent paper is Oser et al. (2010).\'a0 They model massive early type galaxies using a hydro-code super-posed on a zoom-in of a cosmological N-body simulation.\'a0 Their galaxies wind up containing two sub-populations of stars, those that formed "
\i in situ
\i0 " in the massive halo, and those that formed in satellites outside R_vir of the main halo, which were then accreted at later times.\'a0 The 
\i in situ
\i0  stars dominate the central part of the galaxy, while the accreted stars wind up at much higher radius, thus setting up a strong gradient in the origin of the stars.\'a0 Interestingly, both the 
\i in situ
\i0  stars and the accreted stars tend to be old.\'a0 There is often a little dribble of residual 
\i in situ
\i0  star formation in their models of less massive galaxies, which would tend to make the central population younger.\'a0 Also, you'd expect strong differences in the metallicities of the two components, with the 
\i in situ
\i0  stars showing much higher metallicities than those that were accreted from small satellites, due to the mass-metallicity relation and the greatly reduced ability of small galaxies to hold onto metal-enriched SN ejecta.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs40 \cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf3 *************************************************\
\'a0\'a0Genevieve Graves\'a0\
\'a0\'a0Miller Fellow\
\'a0\'a0UC Berkeley Department of Astronomy\'a0\
\'a0\'a0601 Campbell Hall\
\'a0\'a0Berkeley, CA 94720\
\'a0\'a0+1 510 847 6010\
*************************************************\
\
}